Now, the topic is Fibonacci series.
So here we will learn what is happening to kids and then we will devise recursive definition and we
will write a recursive function for that one.
And finally, we will analyze that function.
So let us talk.
See, this is a fabulous subsidies, the zero to zero next term is one than one, then good and three
and five and so on.
So how we're paying these, Tom?
Each Tom is obtained by adding previous to DOMS, so that is five plus eight is 13 and the storm is
obtained by adding these two domes.
So initially, what are the terms?
These are the starting dumps.
If the zero the dome then it is zero for the system.
One then is one rust.
Every other dome as obtained by adding previous to done so initially you must have two terms then all
you can define like this that every time is converting previous times.
So this can be defined mathematically of and can really finance Ferb of and minus two plus fizbo and
minus one then and is greater than one if and as a zero or as one then four zero two zero four one.
And this one.
So if anybody is one down for this directly, one for zero, the values are directly zero for is equal
to one answer, strictly one otherwise are the previous two dumps.
So let me put it on the table.
Now, this is no end, and this is in some ways I want to know what the Tom answer is.
Fine.
If I want to know seven to Tom, answer this 13.
So first, let me write a recursive function for Fibonacci series based on this recurrence relation
or or based on based on this recursive definition, I will write the function.
Integer fape of integer nd.
So here it says that if it is zero, return zero for this one dritan one.
So it means if anything less than or equal to one are written and itself means if and as one return
one zero return Siedel.
Otherwise, Ripton.
Think of any minus two plus feet of and the minus one.
The very definition.
That's all if you want to find out any time, like seven to or 10, the Tom or any Tom, you call off,
then you get turned Tom off, will not you?
Chris golfBall seven, you get seven.
Tom will come back to that function afterwards.
For first of all, let us write an iterative version that is a function using loop.
So let me write our Fibonacci function using loop integer FEBA.
I'll give the name once again C.M.A.
I'm using here then if the number is less than or equal to 100 and the number itself.
So here if and there's less than or equal to one then written and it's.
But otherwise, I need to dance to add them one by one, so integer don't zero as zero and dumb one
as one.
And also I have to add the value.
So for addition, I will take some as so I have three variables.
Now, using these three variables, I will write on a loop for finding out and the Dom S..
Suppose I have to find the seven atoms then all they it on zero is available down.
One is also available.
Then I have to obtain this storm.
One, two, three, four, five, six.
So actually I should generate only six domme so I should perform additions only six time.
Obviously I have these two.
Dong's right.
So two, three, four, five, six, seven NetSol.
So I should start from second time onwards and stop at seven Tatong.
So whichever time I want, I should stop that.
So I should start from two onwards.
So let me run a loop for.
I sign, so I need one more variable, I and I is less than or equal to N and I plus plus.
So this is for repeating the procedure for and the minus one times for.
I'm starting from two to n not every time.
What I have to do is I should be assigned with 30 zero plus at one.
So this storm should be obtained by adding these to the DTG.
Twenty one then after getting the same.
Now this should become disillusioned, it should become T1.
So forgetting the next storm.
So I should change this value to zero and this I should make it as T1.
So the variable should be made as a T one and T one should be made as s and repeat this procedure.
So finally a result will be in S.
So this is an Israeli version, so it's a diversion.
What is the time taken by this algorithm or this procedure?
This procedure takes let us take it, this statement will execute for one time and one time.
This loop is written as one plus and plus one, but starting from two onwards.
So let's say it is only 10 and the things inside will be four and minus one times and minus one times.
And this is one.
So total is one, two, three, four, four.
End and minus one.
Minus one one.
So this plus one gets canceled.
So this four.
And so the time is for any order.
And basically we wanted to know the degree.
So to sort of offend.
So we don't want exact formula.
We want the degree.
You can see that there is one for loop and for loop will repeat for End-Time.
So the time this order and it's obvious from the function.
So this algorithm takes a lot of time.
So already we have it, it's a diversion now let us go back to recursive version and analyze that one
and see how much time it takes and if any improvement required, we will do some improvements.
And so I removed this one and then we will analyze that function.
Now, let us stress this recursive function for five of five.
If it passed five, what happens?
Five is not less than one.
So it will make two calls.
So we know what the function is.
Very simple.
So I will just go on tracing this one.
So here it will call five of three and there it will qualifiable for afterwards.
Not now.
First, this call will be made as this is three.
So it will make a call for football for one and two afterwards.
Not now.
If it was one.
This is the end.
One end is less than equal to one.
So yes.
And this one now.
So this will not call further.
And the result, this one then here it has two calls for both two.
So I'm just writing here for then if it was two further calls, fizbo of zero and feeB of one three
one zero gives the other zero one.
This gives the other one and they are added to that are done.
And this is added as it is written on here.
It will call fizbo four.
So for the people for this is of two and three three three two five zero and of one.
So these results are obtained 011 and they are added result this written and on this side of three again
this is figure of one and off to then type of two.
This is above zero and the figure of one.
So here the call is so here the result is zero one.
This is zero and this is one and added on added return added and final edition is done.
So this is how our three looks like our recursion tree looks like four or five.
If you look at the functions in the order in which they are called, this is the first function call
in the second call and the third call, then forward call, fifth column, sixth call, then seven,
eight, nine, ten.
Then this is 11 call 12, 13, 14, 15.
So forceable five.
Number of calls are 15.
Calls are 15, then three or four.
How many calls are there.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, nine calls.
Are they then three of three.
How many calls are there.
One, two, three, four, five, five calls are there.
So no, if we try to observe any pattern, there is no pattern here.
This is five.
So this is fifteen five.
Three fifteen.
Then for three it should be twelve.
Then.
This is forward into four or two in the four plus one, so we cannot figure out what pattern it is following.
So if you want to know the time taken by this one, then assume that this off and the minus two is also
for your boyfriend, minus one.
So this is calling itself four two times and minus one and minus one and minus one.
So many functions calling two times by a reduced value of one and the minus one.
Then the timers order of Cooper and.
So the time taken by this function is to pour in approximately Dupa, and so if you observe the previous
function, iterative version was order of and and recursive version is too poor and too much time consuming.
Now, is there any method to make it faster than to pour in?
Let us observe now this analysis is important.
If you see the tracing that is regression tree, the value of every function after is called here.
And again, it is called here.
F2 is called here first time.
Then again, if two is called, then again if two is called.
So similarly s01 F1 they are also called multiple times.
So a recursive function is calling itself multiple times for the same values.
So such a recursive function is called as.
Excessive regulation.
So, yes, this Fibonacci function is all excessive recursion, because it will call itself multiple
times for the same parameters.
This is a problem in this fund.
So is there any way to avoid the excessive calls and just make a call only once and utilize it in further
comments?
So, yes, what is the matter?
Let us devise a method if you want a function to retain the these values so that they can be utilized
here, then for retaining the values, you have to take the help of static variable, or you can also
take global variables.
Let us take one uhry, maybe a static or globality, whatever you want, you can take it.
Index zero, one, two, three, four, five, six times higher than the one you can take it, so just
have to concentrate to be one up to five.
Now, how to write a.
Now, how to modify this algorithm to make it faster, so I remove fuel tanks from board and show you
this global area or study.
Let us initialize it with the minus one, minus one, since we don't know the value minus one.
Now, let us stress it once again by taking the help of this global or static threat.
First, I will show you that Preysing what modifications we can do, then we will modify our function.
Let us see.
golfBall five, do we really need to call it a check for five minus one?
We don't know the answer for this.
OK, call this one.
So it is called it will make two calls.
So the first call, if it was three, do we really need to make three more.
Three?
Yes, we have to because we don't know the answer.
Then this will make it more fun.
But we need to make a call for both.
One guess because it is minus one.
What can make the call?
So once you make the call, the result is one.
So once you got the result, because there's a small function and it's less than equal to one on one,
so return zero or one, whatever it is.
So this is one.
So we got the answer.
So change this to one.
Now we know the answer for five off one.
Yes.
Then go back.
Do we have to make a call to flip off two?
Yes.
We don't know the answer then.
Do we have to make a call to triple zero?
Yes.
We don't know the answer to this function.
So this result will be zero.
But this one then it is less than equal to one return the same value.
So zero return zero sum.
Modify this also.
Now, in order for those to then make a call for this one, do we need to make a call for this check?
No, no.
We don't answer.
Don't call us.
It's not clear.
Yes, so avoid the call, because all of you have got the answer here.
So this call is skipped, then I have to get an answer for this one.
This was zero and this was one.
So this is zero.
Plus one is one.
So this one's for this one.
So modify this one.
We Noonans for this.
Then we got this answer one and this answer one plus one.
So this is two.
So we got Don.
So that is to then let us go on that site, three or four.
Do we know if it was for chicken?
No, we don't know.
So we have to call this one.
So if you call this, there are two calls inside if you want to do.
Benoit Yeah.
Benoit, don't call this one.
So don't call this.
All sorts of other calls will also be avoided.
Then the reason we know how much of this and this one, if you want to, is and then football three,
shall we call it check it.
No, we know the answer, so don't call this one.
So then falling calls will also be avoided.
And answer for this one is how much to then perform edition one plus two.
This is three novenas answer for the side also that said also plus so this becomes two plus three.
That is five.
So this I did not read this so no this is five.
Know the answer for all.
So these calls are avoided.
So if you remove those calls and check one, two, three, four, five, six.
So it is making just six of function calls for five, six calls.
Reason five, four, three, two, one and zero is also included so far.
And how many calls and plus one that is end to zero.
So the time taken by this method will be outdraw and so time is reduced.
So just no use for that.
That function, if you analyze it, will take outdraw to power and that is exponential.
I did not analyze it thoroughly.
Just have told you that it takes to board and time approximately.
There is no problem to board and it's inoperable.
But now by storing the result of the function in an area, we have reduced the excessive calls and the
time is less than two percent and it has reduced down to just outdraw.
And so a big change in the time complexity of Fibonacci function.
So this reduction in time is because of storing the value was in early holding the reserves so that
avoid excessive call.
So this approach is called as memorisation, storing the results of the function call so that they can
be utilized again when we need the same call or avoiding excessive calls.
This approach is called as a memorisation means storing the results.
So this is applicable here in Fibonacci series.
So I have given introduction of memorisation.
So this example, suitable example for memorisation.
Now, based on this memorisation, I have to modify that function so I will remove the function and
write a better function that is using memorisation.
Let us write a function.
Suppose there is some global effort which is initialized by some function that is a main function on
minus one, not fill in min function now Fibonacci function, Fibonacci function the parameter and and
if and is less than equal to one then in f also n store the value end and also return.
And so if you observe the previous function was having just written and but now this function is also
storing the resulting global array of four memorisation it is storing in f then and spot ls only are
blindly.
We were making two functions called that is for both and minus two and minus one but Novacek and then
make it call.
If value is not known then we'll make a call.
So if F of and minus two is minus one means if you don't know the value then F of and minus two you
get the result of football and minus two.
So here we will make a call.
Similarly, if we don't know the value of above and minus one and it is minus one that we don't know,
then make a call for football and minus one and two, the result in F and minus one.
Now we have two values then simplification addition of these two values that is free of and minus two
plus feebles and minus one.
So this version is that memorisation assume that that globality is initialise that minus one somewhere
inside the main function before the function is utilized.
So that's all about Fibonacci.
We have learned that it can be done using iteration and using recursion.
And the time is sort of to part.
And then we have reduced the time by using memorisation.
Before.